# Parallel Paessens' Clarke-Wright Savings &ndash Discrete Tree-Seed Algorithm for Optimization of the Capacitated Vehicle Routing benchmark Problems
Optimizing Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem through Modified Discrete Tree-Seed Algorithm with Parallel Paessens' Clarke-Wright Heuristic

In this study, we proposed the use of the modified Discrete Tree-Seed Algorithm with the Parallel Paessens' Clarke-Wright Savings (CWS-DTSA) in optimizing Capacitated Vehicle Routing benchmark problems (CVRP). The control parameters considered are the search tendency *ST* and population size *N*. The additional parameters in the algorithm include the *route shape* parameter λ and *correction term* μ which were used to solve for the savings matrix of the Clarke-Wright Savings algorithm.

For each benchmark problem of the CVRP, the fleet size is **homogeneous** which means that the vehicle capacity is the same for all vehicles. Various number of customers were considered ranging from 16 to 121 customers with different vehicle capacities *Q* and demands *q<sub>i</sub>*. Hence, each parameter is considered as a single-dimension in a multi-dimensional search space such that the other dimensions in the search space corresponds to the several problem-specific parameters such as the number of nodes, the number of vehicles, the capacity constraints, the distance matrix, and the savings matrix, among others.

In the algorithm, the nodes are denoted by tuples and these array of tuples are considered to be the dimension of the CVRP problem. The search space, on the other hand, represents the set of all possible combination of routes that satisfy the constraints of the CVRP such as the capacity limits of the vehicles and the requirement that each customer is visited exactly once.

The trees (solutions) and seeds (feasible solutions) are a set of possible routes wherein the dimension is the number of nodes while the search space is the combination of routes. The trees are first initialized with the help of the CWS algorithm and the random permutations of the nodes. Then, the algorithm iterates over all the trees in the population while generating seeds to improve the trees. The maximum number of function evaluation was used to be the terminating criterion.

The proposed CWS-DTSA showed promising results in optimizing benchmark CVRPs. The algorithm was able to achieve optimal solutions with an acceptable percentage deviation and runtime. The parameter analysis showed that population size *N* has a greater effect on the algorithm's performance compared to the search tendency *ST*. Additionally, the study found that as the number of vertices and population size increase, so does the algorithm's runtime. Computational results also show that the algorithm has a satisfactory performance obtaining 53.33% of optimal or quality solutions, with 46.67% deviated solutions compared to the Genetic Algorithm which has 66.67% optimum achievements, 6.67% new solutions, and 26.67% deviated solutions. Furthermore, the proposed algorithm has better performance than the original DTSA which uses the Nearest Neighbor algorithm and the Clarke-Wright Savings heuristic if used solely.

Based on the findings, we recommend further exploration of the proposed algorithm's potential in solving more complex optimization problems. Specifically, future studies may focus on enhancing the algorithm's consistency in achieving optimal solutions by adjusting the maximum number of function evaluations. Additionally, the algorithm's performance in real-world scenarios could also be explored further. Overall, the results of this study suggest that the proposed algorithm is a promising approach in solving the Capacitated Vehicle Routing benchmark problems and has the potential for broader application in various optimization problems.
